[SQUEAKING]
[RUSTLING] [CLICKING]
HELENA VAILLICROSA: In
this section of the course,
I'm going to go directly jump to
GIS, so geographic information
systems.
And before going
directly to the code,
I just wanted to make
sure that everybody
is in the same page
in some key concepts.
So that's why I'm just going
to clarify some of them.
So what you are going to
learn in this video is to be
familiarized with concepts
such as what are vectorial maps
and what are raster maps-- so
what are the differences among
them and where should we
use one or the other--
what is the projection--
so why do we
need different
projections-- also
what's the concept of
resolution and why should we
take into account resolution
when working with maps, and also
different ways to create maps.
So there are mostly two
different approaches
to create maps with.
The first one would
be the satellite maps
that are created top to bottom.
And then we have the
maps that are upscaled
that are the other way around.
So they are created
bottom to top.
So my goal is that
then you would
be able to apply
all these concepts
and manage all these
concepts in your R code.
OK.
So here we have the
same image represented
in the two different maps.
So the first one is represented
using a vectorial map.
And the second one is
represented using raster.
The main difference is
that, in vectorial maps,
we can have irregular polygons.
But in the raster
maps, we have a grid,
where all the cells are
equally distributed.
They have the same size.
And they are in the
same disposition.
So that might affect how the
different forms are represented.
So in case we are interested
in the shape of the objects,
maybe we would go
to a vectorial map.
But if we are interested
in the content of the map,
we would go to raster
representations.
Also, there is the
concept of projection.
As we all know, the Earth
is not a flat surface.
So to overcome this
representation in--
to convert this round shape
into something that's flat,
we have encountered
several problems.
So that's why we have different
projections depending on where
we want to focus better on.
So each representation
has its pros and cons.
So for example, if we are
more interested in having
accurate shapes in the poles,
we would use one projection.
But if we want to see
accurately the whole globe,
maybe we choose something else.
But that has implications
in how the shapes look like.
For example, this
is the same face,
but how this can be transformed
or deformed depending
on how we are representing it.
So this is something we have to
take into account because if we
want to merge or extract
information from different maps,
they may be in
different projections.
And how is this affecting us?
Well, here you see South America
and how this South America can
be represented and how its
shape can change depending
on the projection we are using.
So before moving on in
maps, we have to make sure
that the projection,
we are using
is accurate to the piece of the
Earth that we want to represent
or that we want
to work on, what's
the scale we are
going to work on,
if we're going to work
in a regional part
or if we're going to
work in a global scale,
and also make sure that
all the column maps are
in the same
projection so we don't
have problems as in the image.
Then we have the
resolution concept.
This is a picture.
But a picture would be a
good proxy of a raster map.
At the end, they
are built the same.
So here, we have the same image.
And the main difference
is that the square size
is completely different.
So the first one, the
one is more in the left,
it doesn't have that
much of a detail.
And the second one
is very detailed.
One would think that
it's always better
to go to more
detailed resolution.
But this has some
drawbacks, which is
that they are way more heavy.
So depending on the
capacity your computer has
or depending on how good is
your internet connection,
you might go to
one or the other.
Just as a reminder,
sometimes even
if you are increasing
the resolution,
maybe that's not
going to help us
to have more accurate
calculations just
because the quality of the map
was initially not the purest
and was created in a
coarser resolution.
So even if we go to--
if we can transform a coarser
resolution to a more fine scale,
we are not creating
new information.
So this is the top-bottom
approach of creating maps.
We know that we have satellites
going around above our heads.
So they use as a big
camera, let's say.
So they have different sensors.
They have different lenses.
So they are taking
pictures or representations
of the surface of the Earth.
So they send
different wavelengths.
And then they get
some bounced back.
And then they read
the signal of that.
And based on those signals,
they apply some corrections
sometimes.
And that's how they
create satellite images.
But then another way to
create maps sometimes,
when we don't have a
signal from a satellite,
would be the upscaling approach.
Here in the first map,
we have different dots.
This is taken from a
paper, Du et al 2020.
It's just an example
of an upscaled map
where they had real data.
So each point is representing
a real point, where
some field data has been taken.
Then based on this
real information,
a model is created using
some environmental drivers,
solid drivers.
And a model is created.
And with this model, then
we can empty the spaces
that are in between the
different points based
on upscaling using that map.
So this is how we can obtain
maps from a bottom-top approach.
And also, here
are some resources
you can find raster maps.
The first one is
the World Clim, ,
where you can find environmental
variables such as, well,
related to climate--
precipitation,
temperature, and so forth.
And then if you are interested
in obtaining information
from soils, you might
go to Soil Grids, where
they have a lot of physical
and chemical properties
of different soils.